Auth: Add skip_org_role_sync setting for GrafanaCom (#60553)
grafana/grafana: docs/sources/setup-grafana/configure-security/configure-authentication/grafana-com/index.md

> ---

Reviewer: I didn't realise that we didn't have a section for GCom. Thanks for adding it!

aliases:
  - ../../../auth/grafana-com/
description: Grafana Com Authentication
title: Configure Grafana Com authentication
weight: 500
---

# Configure Grafana Com authentication

> To enable GrafanaCom as your authentication provider, you configure it to generate a client ID and a secret key.

Author: yea, i asked in the GrafanaCom channel and there does not seem to be a standard way as far as I know

---
aliases:
  - ../../../auth/grafana-com/
description: Grafana Com Authentication

> title: Configure Grafana Com Authentication

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
title: Configure Grafana Com authentication
```

weight: 500
---

# Configure Grafana Com authentication

> To enable GrafanaCom as your authentication provider. You configure GrafanaCom to generate a client ID and a secret key for you to use.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To enable GrafanaCom as your authentication provider, you configure it to generate a client ID and a secret key.
```

## Create Grafana Com OAuth keys

To use Grafana Com authentication:

> 1. Login on to Grafana com

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Log in to Grafana Com.
```

> 2. Create an OAuth client by visiting your organization and clicking “OAuth Clients”.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. To create an OAuth client, locate your organization and click **OAuth Clients**. 
```

> 3. Then click “Add OAuth Client Application”.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Click **Add OAuth Client Application**.
```

> 4. Add the URL of your running instance of Grafana.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Add the URL of your running Grafana instance.
```

> 5. The next step will give you the client ID and secret.

Reviewer 2: i'm not sure what this means. What next step? After they enter the URL, what do they do next? Maybe there's a submit button or a Next button?

Author: @chri2547 nice to point this out, I have made it a bit more clear with this commit: 97ed25bf87

> Below is an example of the configuration:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following code shows an example configuration:
```

```ini
[auth.grafana_com]
enabled = true
allow_sign_up = true
client_id = 450bc21c10dc2194879d
client_secret = eyJ0Ijoib2F1dGgyYyIhlmlkIjoiNzUwYmMzM2MxMGRjMjE6NDh3OWQiLCJ2IjoiZmI1YzVlYmIwYzFmN2ZhYzZmNjIwOGI1NmVkYTRlNWYxMzgwM2NkMiJ9
scopes = user:email
allowed_organizations = sampleorganization
enabled = true

# prevents the sync of org roles from Grafana.com
skip_org_role_sync = false
```

> ## Skip Org Role Sync

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Skip organization role sync
```

> To prevent the sync of org roles from Grafana.com, set `skip_org_role_sync` to `true`. This is useful if you want to use Grafana.com as an identity provider but want to manage the org roles in Grafana.

Reviewer 2: I'm a little confused on this one. Why is preventing the sync of org roles a good thing? What happens if they are sync'd? I'd think you'd want them to be sync'd.

Author: syncing roles from their idp's is the default for most customers. Some customers ask for this when they have multiple providers and would want to be able to manage roles within Grafana without them being synced from their IDP

---
aliases:
  - ../../../auth/grafana-com/
description: Grafana Com Authentication
title: Configure Grafana Com authentication
weight: 500
---

# Configure Grafana Com authentication

To enable GrafanaCom as your authentication provider, you configure it to generate a client ID and a secret key.

## Create Grafana Com OAuth keys

To use Grafana Com authentication:

> 1. Log in to Grafana Com.

Reviewer 2: How does the user do this? what is the URL?

1. To create an OAuth client, locate your organization and click **OAuth Clients**.
1. Click **Add OAuth Client Application**.

> 1. Add the name, and URL of your running Grafana instance.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Add the name and URL of your running Grafana instance.
```

> 1. Click **Add OAuth Client**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Click **Add OAuth Client**.
```

scopes = user:email
allowed_organizations = sampleorganization
enabled = true
```

## Skip organization role sync

> To prevent the sync of org roles from Grafana.com, set `skip_org_role_sync` to `true`. This is useful if you want to use your Grafana instance to manage the organization roles for your users.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To prevent the sync of org roles from Grafana.com, set `skip_org_role_sync` to `true`. This is useful if you want to manage the organization roles for your users from within Grafana.
```
